# Email Verification using Link-Based Validation

Ensure email verification through a user-friendly link that directs users to a webpage where they can easily confirm their email address.

## Implementation Steps

1. Create a Verification Webpage

- To facilitate email verification, we'll need a dedicated webpage that will handle all verification requests.

2. Generate Unique Verification Links

- When a user signs up, generate a unique verification link for their email address.

3. Send Verification Link

- Send the generated verification link to the user's email address.

4. User Verification Process

- When the user clicks on the verification link, they will be redirected to a webpage to confirm their email.

## How it Works

1. Link Creation
   To create a unique verification link for each user:

- First get the base URL of the website (e.g., https://xyz.com/verify?id=<user_unique_identifier>).
- Create a unique user identifier to include in the link.
- The unique id can be generated by encrypting user's email

2. Sending Verification Link

- The verification link is sent to the user's email.

3.  Confirm Email Verification

- Once the user confirms email verification, a request is made to the server with the unique identifier.

4. Server-side Verification

- We'll decrypt the id
- Verify the associated email by setting the `verified` field to `true`.

## Security Concerns:

1. Expiration Time for Verification Links

- To fix this, we can use JWT for encrypting the user's email with an expiration time to ensure link validity..

2. Limit Link Generation

- Control the generation of verification links by tracking the count of links generated for each user. Ban user accounts if they exceed a specified limit (e.g., 10 links).

3. Account Banning:

- Before processing any link validation or generation requests, check whether a user's account is banned.
